---
title: "Shifts in Family Businesses Due to the Covid-19 Pandemic"

collection: publications

permalink: /publication/2021-covid19

excerpt: "publication"

date: 2021

venue: 'Global Journal of Entrepreneurship'

paperurl: 'https://www.igbr.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/GJE_Vol_5_SI_2021.pdf'

citation: 'Arik, M., Riley, J., Mirsaidova, A., Sumaiya, M. (2021). Shifts in Family Businesses Due to the Covid-19 Pandemic. Global Journal of Entrepreneurship, 153.


The Business and Economics Research Center (BERC) at Middle Tennessee State University conducted the Family Business Survey from February 13, 2020, to May 23, 2020, to analyze family business frustrations and threats to its survival. This data was split into two sections: before the COVID-19 pandemic and during the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the chronology of the responses. An extensive analysis was conducted on the qualitative responses to two questions regarding “family business frustrations and threats” from the survey for the purpose of this research. Results for the first question found that the top three frustration themes for family businesses were: "time," "family," and "lack." Results from the second question indicated that the most concerning threat before the pandemic was "competition," which fell behind "Coronavirus" during the pandemic. Pre-pandemic concerns regarding technology, cyber-attacks and, cyber-security also reduced during the pandemic, implying an increase in familiarity, comfort, and adoption.